Version: 1.0.0 Advanced E-Commerce API

About:
    In the Advanced E-Commerce API, I have implemented several new features to ensure the secure storage of information, thorough testing of 
  endpoints, comprehensive documentation, and a modular design. This makes it the most in-depth and well-thought-out RESTful API I have built 
  to date. These enhancements allow for readability, maintainability, and scalability over time, even in an ever-changing environment of web 
  security.
   
   
  Secure Storage and Retrieval:
    -utils folder:
      To ensure the safe and secure storage of information, werkzeug.security is implemented for password hashing. When a user signs into 
    their account, werkzeug.security.check_password_hash verifies that the password is correct for the given username. Once both the username 
    and password are verified, a JWT (JSON Web Token) is generated to create a 256-bit hash token for the user. This token is used for accessing 
    different endpoints across the application. The token has a default time limit of one day and one hour, which can be adjusted as needed.

      Within the hash, the user’s role is embedded, allowing access to be granted based on the appropriate role. This approach ensures that only 
    information designated by admins as public can be seen by everyone. As the application grows in complexity, more roles can be created to 
    allow departments to access role-specific areas.


  Testing:
    -tests folder:
      For testing various API endpoints, I used unittest and Faker to create mock objects and endpoints. This allowed me to test each endpoint 
    under various constraints, facilitating the refactoring of code for better performance and maintainability under stress. This ensures my 
    code is prepared for all situations, whether it’s handling incorrectly entered data or verifying that the code functions as intended.

      I have used Faker, requests, and unittest to achieve this. Faker generates mock data for use with the API, while requests allow me 
    to interact with the API endpoints to send or retrieve data. Unittest integrates everything, enabling testing without directly 
    inputting data into the database.

      Such testing should be done before building the application to define the data structure before the API is operational. I have 
    set up mock data functions to ensure that data entered into services maintains a consistent structure, serving as a control while 
    working with them. This approach allows each service to handle the same type of data used across all endpoints.

      In conclusion, testing like this is great for validating the performance, security, and reliability of the API and its 
    structure. It allows a coder like myself to identify areas where my code may be lacking and needing improvement, ensuring a 
    better-performing API while isolating each part of the code. If you want to see the tests in action hope over to the test folder and 
    give them a run.


  Documentation:
    -static folder:
      Documentation of data structures, endpoints, and errors is all handled in the swagger.yaml file located in the static folder. Using 
    Swagger and YAML (Yet Another Markup Language), documenting each part of the API becomes much easier and allows for interactive documentation. 
    This gives users a hands-on experience with how information is entered, received, and validated within the API’s code structure.

      Within swagger.yaml, the use of tokens and role verification showcases how security is implemented across the application. To explore the 
    endpoints of this API, visit this GitHub link and click “Run.” Then, open your browser and go to http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/docs/ to interact 
    with all the endpoints and models/schemas.


  Modularized Design:
    E-Commerce uses a modular design to allow for scalability, readability, and ease of debugging.

      Controllers:
          Controllers are where all the data is reviewed using SQLAlchemy to serialize and deserialize data that is given to and received 
      from the database, ensuring the data submitted is in the correct format. When the information doesn’t meet the requirements, 
      implemented error handling lets the user know where they went wrong.

      Models:
            Models lay out each table’s columns, rows, and relationships with other tables to grant access to that information. They also 
        tell the database what kind of information it is looking for, whether it be a string, integer, list, or dictionary. Additionally, 
        they can set restrictions on how long or short the data can be for each row, ensuring that the user enters the correct information.

      Schemas:
          Schemas is a subfolder of Models where the controller checks its data against a schema (model or template) to see if the 
        information matches the columns for that table. 

      Routes:
            Routes specify how the URL should look to find the endpoint for the specified operation you want to perform. Each blueprint can 
        hold several routes, allowing for insertion, selection, deletion, and modification of information within the database.

      Services:
            Services is where all the 'magic' happens. All the data is validated and meticulously reviewed to ensure that when tables share 
        information, it is indeed the correct type of information to be associated with one another. For instance, a product's stock is 
        automatically updated when the day’s production is entered at the end of the day. Data can be parsed and modified within services.  


  Other Notable Features:

    Limiter:
        A limit of 100 requests per day has been implemented on all endpoints. This can be adjusted to reflect the application’s traffic needs. 
      The limit is set at 100 to prevent the API from being overused and to ensure it operates at its best capacity at all times. This also 
      helps prevent any single user from abusing and overloading the API with excessive calls.

    Caching:
        Caching is used to save information in the user’s local memory for 60 seconds by default, helping to prevent the API from being overloaded 
      by numerous GET requests. This reduces stress on the API and helps prevent crashes. Caching has been implemented on all GET requests, 
      and the default time can be adjusted as needed. However, the drawback of caching is that if any changes occur within the set time frame, 
      the cache will not reflect those changes until the endpoint is called again after the timer has expired.

    Pagination:
        Pagination is used to limit the amount of information the API retrieves at one time, ensuring that only a manageable amount is displayed 
      on a single page. By default, this is set to 10 items per page. This approach prevents the API from being overloaded and conserves 
      resources on the user’s end, particularly memory.


Installs:
  Refer to requirements.txt to see all of the installs used. You can also run the command bellow for quick install into your VENV (virtual environment)
PIP install Command:
  pip install Flask SQLAlchemy marshmallow flask-marshmallow Flask-SQLAlchemy Flask-Caching mysql-connector-python marshmallow-sqlalchemy circuitbreaker Flask-Limiter flask-cors pyjwt python-dotenv Faker pytest pytest-mock requests flask-swagger flask-swagger-ui


Questions:
Imagine you are tasked with creating an e-commerce application that empowers both customers and administrators. The goal is to build a 
user-friendly platform where customers can effortlessly browse products, add them to their shopping carts, and place orders. Simultaneously, 
administrators should have tools to manage product inventory, track orders, and ensure a seamless shopping experience.

To tackle this challenge, we will leverage the power of Python and two essential libraries: Flask and Flask-SQLAlchemy. Flask is a lightweight 
web framework that simplifies web application development, while Flask-SQLAlchemy provides a robust toolkit for database interactions. 
Together, they form the perfect duo to craft our e-commerce solution.

Project Requirements
💡 Note: 
We've developed some of this functionality throughout this course. Please feel free to reuse functionality from other assignments 
& projects to help speed up the process.

Customer and CustomerAccount: 
  Create the CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) endpoints for managing Customers and their associated CustomerAccounts:

Create Customer: Implement an endpoint to add a new customer to the database.

Read Customer: Develop an endpoint to retrieve customer details based on their unique identifier (ID).

Update Customer: Create an endpoint for updating customer details, allowing modifications to the customer's name, email, and phone number.

Delete Customer: Implement an endpoint to delete a customer from the system based on their ID.


Create CustomerAccount: Develop an endpoint to create a new customer account. This should include fields for a unique username and a secure 
password. The customerAccount have a customer ID with one-to-one relationship

Read CustomerAccount: Implement an endpoint to retrieve customer account details, including the associated customer's information.

Update CustomerAccount: Create an endpoint for updating customer account information, including the username and password.

Delete CustomerAccount: Develop an endpoint to delete a customer account.


Product Catalog: Create the CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) endpoints for managing Products:

Create Product: Implement an endpoint to add a new product to the e-commerce database. 

Read Product: Develop an endpoint to retrieve product details based on the product's unique identifier (ID). 

Update Product: Create an endpoint for updating product details, allowing modifications to the product name and price.

Delete Product: Implement an endpoint to delete a product from the system based on its unique ID.

List Products: Develop an endpoint to list all available products in the e-commerce platform. Ensure that the list provides essential 
product information.


Order Processing: Develop the ability to place and retrieve an order.

Place Order: Create an endpoint for customers to place new orders, specifying the products they wish to purchase and providing essential 
order details. Each order should capture the order date and the associated customer.

Retrieve Order: Implement an endpoint that allows customers to retrieve details of a specific order based on its unique identifier (ID). 
Provide a clear overview of the order, including the order date and associated products.

Database Integration:
Utilize Flask-SQLAlchemy to integrate a MySQL database into the application.
Design and create the necessary Model to represent customers, orders, products, customer management, and any additional features.
Establish relationships between tables to model the application's core functionality.
Ensure proper database connections and interactions for data storage and retrieval.

Modularization code:
The code must be modularized using a layered architecture. We've used these during this module: Controllers, Models, Routes, Services, Utils, 
Test. We are open to your own interpretation and experimentation so long as it is organized and well thought out. A single file thousands of 
line long does not count.
The code must have a configuration file to configure all database connections, cache, etc.
Performance improvement with cache and limit implementation:
Use the cache logic only to get requests using the flask-caching library.
Use flask-limiter to limit request consumption to 100 per day for all endpoints generated.

Implement JWT Security:
Use the jwt library and implement a token that has a time limit. Additionally, all endpoints except login should require the JWT.
Customer and CustomerAccount endpoints must have the administrator role to be consumed.

Unit test implementation with unittest:
Implement 3-5 tests. Use the unittest and mock library to be able to consider multiple scenarios.

Document API with Swagger library:
Use the Swagger library to be able to generate project documentation
Generate the swagger.yaml file with the documentation of each of the generated endpoints.